Feature/app user roles (#774)
MapsPeople/docs: src/various/app-user-roles.md

---
title: Application User Roles
eleventyNavigation:
    key: app-user-roles
    parent: various
    title: Application User Roles
    order: 2
---

> Application User Roles are a feature of the MapsIndoors where you can define roles that you can assign to your users. This will impact various features of the app, for example, if certain doors can only be accessed by employees, you could define an "Employee" and "Visitor" role, and when using the application to search for directions, users assigned to the "Visitor" role will be shown a different route that does not go through such doors, whereas "Employee" users will be shown directions that also include these doors.

Reviewer: ... User Roles _(is)_ a feature of the MapsIndoors _(SDK/Platform?)_...

Author: "are" is correct, added "platform"

Reviewer: _are a feature_ describes a singular feature, so _"is"_ is correct.

Author: No, the "are" refers back to the "app user roleS", which are plural, it's not the singular feature which determines the singular/plural (Shahab agrees).

"Is" would be correct if the sentence was something like "An app user role (singular) is a feature within MapsIndoors"

Reviewer: User Roles is capitalized, meaning it is the (singular) _feature_ being described. User Roles is the name of the feature - and being a feature, it is singular.

Reviewer: But I don't really care, we can see it as resolved...

## How to Configure App User Roles

> App User Roles are confuigured via the CMS web application. In the menus, go to `Solution Details > App Settings > App Configuration`, and then find the menu point named `App User Roles`. Here, you can configure existing roles, and add new ones.

Reviewer: configured spelling error

> For more information, see the [reference documentation](https://app.mapsindoors.com/mapsindoors/reference/ios/v3/interface_m_p_solution_provider.html).

</mi-tab-panel>
<mi-tab-panel id="Android">

To fetch User Roles from the SDK, you call `getUserRoles`:

```java
final List<UserRole> cmsUserRoles = MapsIndoors.getUserRoles();
```

To set User Roles, `applyUserRoles` is used:

```java
MapsIndoors.applyUserRoles(savedUserRoles);
```

> For more information, see the [reference documentation](https://app.mapsindoors.com/mapsindoors/reference/android/v3/index.html).

</mi-tab-panel>
<mi-tab-panel id="Web">

To get the available Roles in the Web SDK, you use `SolutionsService`:

```js
mapsindoors.services.SolutionsService.getUserRoles().then(userRoles => {
  console.log(userRoles);
});
```

User Roles can be set on a global level using `mapsindoors.MapsIndoors.setUserRoles()`.

```js
mapsindoors.MapsIndoors.setUserRoles(['myUserRoleId']);
```

> For more information, see the [reference documentation](https://app.mapsindoors.com/mapsindoors/js/sdk/latest/docs/mapsindoors.MapsIndoors.html#.setUserRoles).

</mi-tab-panel>
</mi-tabs>

## Features Affected by App User Roles

> The App User Roles are a useful tool to limit which types of users can see certain Locations. The main fields that can be influenced through the App User Rules are the Locations on the Map itself, whether they show up in the Search, and how they influence the Directions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The App User Roles are useful for setting limits on who can find certain Locations. App User Rules influence the map in three ways; which Locations are displayed on the map, whether they show up in search results, and the directions you can get.
```

> Any Location defined on the map, in the menu, there is a section named `Restrictions`, where you are presented with options for limiting certain App User Roles.

Reviewer 2: @JG1995 Not sure I completely follow this sentence. Could you try rephrasing it please?

Author: You already made suggestions (which I comitted) for these sentences though?

Reviewer 2: Not this in particular, which I'm still not grasping the meaning of:

> Any Location defined on the map, in the menu, there is a section named `Restrictions`, where you are presented with options for limiting certain App User Roles.

![app-user-role-restrictions](/assets/various/app-user-role-restrictions.png)

> * **Open for all** - All App User Roles can view and search for this Location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Open for all** - All users can view, search for, and get directions to this Location.
```

> * **Open for specific App User Roles** - Here you will see an overview of the App User Roles you have set up previously. Using the checkboxes you can define which App User Roles should have access to viewing and searching for this specific Location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Open for specific App User Roles** - Select which App User Roles have access to viewing, searching and getting directions to this specific Location.
```

Cut, cut, cut 🙂

> * **Closed for All** - No users will see this Location on the Map.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Closed for All** - No users will see this Location on the map.
```

Author: Other places in the documentation (also old stuff that I haven't touched yet) we capitalise map, like we would Location, for example... I can leave it uncapitalised going forward, no issue, just a heads up

### The Map

> If a Location has been restricted to certain App User Roles, it will not be displayed on the Map for those who do not have permission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a Location has been restricted to certain App User Roles, it will not be displayed on the map for those who do not have permission.
```

### Search

> Similarly to the effect on the Map, if a Location has restrictions, it will not show up in a Search for users without sufficient permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly to the effect on the map, if a Location has restrictions, it will not show up in the search results for users without sufficient permissions.
```

### Directions

> As mentioned previously, App User Roles can be used to determine which passages can be taken by a given role. Specifically for "Entrance" Location types, the Restrictions will define whether or not a search for Directions will take the route through a given Entrance. For example, if a door needs an access card, a Route for a visitor to the premises might need to bypass this door, and find an alternate route.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, no 🙂

All Location Types are created equal. It doesn't matter what its name is. There is a difference between a Location and a Route Element, however—the former is geodata, the latter is a modifier on the Graph Layer affecting directions.

My suggestion for what to write in this section:

```suggestion
App User Roles can be used to determine the directions users get. For instance, you can restrict Doors between two Locations to only be passable by a certain App User Role.

Note: If you restrict a Room to only be accessible to certain App User Roles, you restrict both directions _to_ and _through_ that Room. It effectively sets restrictions on all Doors leading to that Room as well.
```

---
title: Application User Roles
eleventyNavigation:
    key: app-user-roles
    parent: various
    title: Application User Roles
    order: 2
---

> _Application User Roles_ are a feature that lets you define various roles you can assign to your users, or they can choose between themselves.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
_Application User Roles_ is a feature that lets you define various roles you can assign to your users, or they can choose between themselves.
```

It's one feature, no?

You might have parts of your map that can only be accessed by employees, so you define "Employee" and "Visitor" roles. When using the application to search for directions, users assigned to the "Visitor" role may be shown a different route from "Employee" users based on what they have access to.

## How to Configure App User Roles

App User Roles are configured via the MapsIndoors CMS. Go to `Solution Details > App Settings > App Configuration`, and find `App User Roles` on the page. Here, you can configure existing roles, and add new ones.

> Click `Add App User Role` and enter the name of the newly created Role in all defined languages for your Solution.

Reviewer 3: This sentence makes it sound like it's mandatory to fill in the name for all languages.

## How to Assign/Change a Role to a User

> Assigning or changing App User Roles to users is done in the app itself. The method depends on which platform you're developing for. Here are some examples:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assigning or changing `App User Roles` to users is done in the app itself. The method depends on which platform you're developing for. Here are some examples:
```

> For more information, see the [reference documentation](https://app.mapsindoors.com/mapsindoors/reference/ios/v3/interface_m_p_solution_provider.html).

</mi-tab-panel>
<mi-tab-panel id="Android">

To fetch User Roles from the SDK, you call `getUserRoles`:

```java
final List<UserRole> cmsUserRoles = MapsIndoors.getUserRoles();
```

To set User Roles, `applyUserRoles` is used:

```java
MapsIndoors.applyUserRoles(savedUserRoles);
```

> For more information, see the [reference documentation](https://app.mapsindoors.com/mapsindoors/reference/android/v3/index.html).

</mi-tab-panel>
<mi-tab-panel id="Web">

To get the available Roles in the Web SDK, you use `SolutionsService`:

```js
mapsindoors.services.SolutionsService.getUserRoles().then(userRoles => {
  console.log(userRoles);
});
```

User Roles can be set on a global level using `mapsindoors.MapsIndoors.setUserRoles()`.

```js
mapsindoors.MapsIndoors.setUserRoles(['myUserRoleId']);
```

> For more information, see the [reference documentation](https://app.mapsindoors.com/mapsindoors/js/sdk/latest/docs/mapsindoors.MapsIndoors.html#.setUserRoles).

</mi-tab-panel>
</mi-tabs>

## Features Affected by App User Roles

> The App User Roles are useful for setting limits on who can find certain Locations. App User Rules influence the map in three ways; which Locations are displayed on the map, whether they show up in search results, and the directions you can get.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `App User Roles` is useful for setting limits on who can find certain `Locations`. `App User Rules` influence the map in three ways; which Locations are displayed on the map, whether they show up in search results, and the directions you can get.
```
